The Indian Springs School Constitution
Preamble
Under the freedom granted the faculty and students of Indian Springs School by the Board of Governors of the
Alabama Educational Foundation, the governing body of Indian Springs School, there is herewith created the official Indian
Springs School Constitution.
The purpose of the Indian Springs School Constitution and Government is to promote living and learning in accordance
with humane and democratic values and principles, thereby contributing to the intellectual, physical, emotional, spiritual, and
ethical development of all members of the Indian Springs school-community.
In establishing this Constitution, the members of the Indian Springs school-community affirm that students and teachers
do not have to accept themselves or their surroundings as they are but that it is within their power to improve both through
participation in constructive change. Such participation enhances the worth and dignity of humankind, develops responsibility,
and leads persons to the realization of latent powers.
Article I – School-Community Life
The school-community exists for the purpose of providing an environment in which each individual can develop to his
or her full stature.
I. Rights
Each individual has certain rights that are equal for each person. Individuals are guaranteed maximum freedom so long
as they do not infringe upon the rights of others or threaten the general welfare of the school-community.
This Constitution guarantees:
1. The right to freedom of religion, speech, inquiry, and criticism.
2. The right of students to select representatives in the government.
3. The right of students to run for public office.
4. The right to petition the Council or Faculty.
5. The right to assemble peacefully.
6. The right to be considered innocent until proven guilty.
II. Values and Ideals
Certain values and ideals are prized because they contribute to making the school-community a better place in which to
live and learn. Each individual is responsible for working toward the realization of these values and ideals.
In our school-community, we aspire to:
1. Show respect towards the opinions and beliefs of others.
2. Develop genuine friendships.
3. Respect the worth and dignity of the individual.
4. Widen the area of common agreement by which decisions are made and actions taken.
5. Develop personal integrity and moral courage.
6. Help individuals to develop their talents and skills.
7. Stimulate individuals to give direct, unselfish service to the school-community.
8. Reflect disapproval of behavior wherein one individual does or says things harmful to another or to the good name of
the school.
9. Prohibit any organized group that divides or tends to divide the school-community.
We encourage individuals to:
1. Accept their political responsibilities.
2. Keep informed about school-community jobs because the general welfare requires it.
3. Voice opinions and demands directly to the proper officials.
4. Use democratic methods to achieve group agreement.
5. Consider the common good before group or personal liberties.
6. Live in accordance with agreed-upon standards.
7. Evaluate the school-community continuously in an effort to improve it.
Article II – Structure of the Government
The divisions of government are:
1. The Director of Indian Springs School, who is appointed by the Board of Governors.
2. The Administration.
3. The Faculty.
4. The Student Government:
a. Town Meeting: a legislative body comprised of all students that, second to the Administration and Faculty, is the
authority of government at Indian Springs.
b. Council: an executive body comprised of the Mayor, the Commissions, and the Class Representatives. c.
Judiciary: a judicial body comprised of students who hear and rule on infractions of policies, rules, and standards.
Article III – Town Meeting
The heart of the Government at Indian Springs School is the Town Meeting. Town Meeting is open to all citizens and
has three main functions:
1. The Town Meeting serves as the legislative branch of Government and is the final authority on all issues in which the
Faculty is neutral. While the Town Meeting is open to all citizens, only students are allowed to vote. Three-quarters
of the student body constitutes a quorum. Decisions will be made by at least a two-thirds majority vote. The
presiding officer will determine whether the voting will be secret or public.
2. The Town Meeting serves as an open forum in which students can freely voice their concerns and opinions about
pressing issues in an effort to improve the overall quality of life in the school-community.
3. The Town Meeting is a means of communication among all citizens of the school-community. Because a democracy
cannot survive unless its citizens remain consistently informed, weekly meetings are encouraged; however, the
frequency of meetings is determined by need.
Town Meetings are called either by the Mayor with the consent of the Faculty or by the Faculty. Students have the right to
request to have a Town Meeting either through the Council, Faculty, or Director. The Mayor has the right to call a
students-only Town Meeting.
The presiding officer of the Town Meeting is the Mayor. In the absence of the Mayor, the Council will designate a presiding
officer. However, if the Town Meeting is called by the Faculty, the Director or someone designated by the Faculty may take
charge of the meeting.
Article IV – The Council
The Council is a body of students elected entirely by the students for the purpose of providing leadership in the
community. The most important responsibility of the Council is to assess the quality of school-community life and improve it
on as many levels as possible.
I. The offices of the Council are:
1. The Mayor, whose duty is to provide leadership for the Council and the community as a whole in building a greater
understanding of the aims and purposes of the community and to bring about the realization of these aims and
purposes through the various Council offices. The Mayor is responsible for seeing that each Council office fulfills
its respective duties and platforms and for coordinating the work of the Council.
2. Commission of Citizenship, whose duties are concerned with the continuing evaluation of the quality of citizenship as
exhibited on a day-to-day basis, in and out of the classroom, and in the larger community beyond the boundaries
of Indian Springs School. Specific examples can include, but are not limited to, organizing Development Day,
promoting service opportunities, and overseeing student clubs.
3. Commission of Education, whose duties are concerned with the continuing evaluation and improvement of teaching
and learning and of the conditions that influence the academic experience. Specific examples can include, but are
not limited to, managing the Writing Center, creating a student tutor system, and participating in Academics
Committee meetings.
4. Commission of Protection, whose duties are concerned with the enforcement of the standards of the school-community
and the promotion of environmental protection. Specific examples can include, but are not limited to, reporting
attendance at mandatory meetings and issuing Records for unexcused absences at such meetings, organizing and
carrying out campus recycling, and discouraging littering, and managing matters surrounding the American flag(s)
flown on campus. Members of the commission are, in a special sense, guardians of the rights, values, principles, and
ideals set out in this Constitution. The preferred method of enforcement of such standards is persuasion. However,
where persuasion does not prove successful, the commission may take more stringent measures.
5. Commission of Recreation, whose duties are concerned with the continuing evaluation and improvement of wholesome
recreational activities in the school-community. Specific examples can include, but are not limited to, organizing
school dances, planning Winter Formal, and leading activities that promote school spirit.
6. Commission of Services, whose duties are concerned with the continuing evaluation and improvement of the range of
needed services in the school-community. The most evident example of this duty is the operation of the student
store.
7. Commission of Boarding, whose duties are concerned with the continuing evaluation and improvement of dormitory
life, which involves the facilitation and execution of dormitory administration such as maintenance and rule
enforcement. The Commission is to be elected from and by the boarding student community as outlined in Article VII.
8. Deputies, who are students installed by a specific Commission to aid in the execution of its duties and to expand
community participation in Government. Each Commission may have up to three Deputies, with the exception of
Commissioners of Boarding, who may have up to two deputies in each dormitory. No one in any of the Council
offices may become a Deputy, and Deputies may serve only one Commission. Deputies are nominated by the
Commission and must be approved individually by the Council. The Commission or the Council may remove a Deputy
at any time; when a Commission leaves office, the Deputies of that Commission also leave their posts. Deputies do
not have a vote in the Council but are strongly encouraged to attend Council meetings.
9. Class Representatives, whose duties are concerned with the continuing evaluation of opinions and desires of their
respective classes. Class Representatives are responsible for organizing and voicing class concerns to the Council
and for taking attendance for their respective grades at mandatory meetings. Each class will elect one or two
representatives from its own class and for its own class.
10. The Council Secretary, whose duties are concerned with the documentation and communication of recent plans,
updates, and discussions mentioned during Student Government and Town Meetings and contributing to task
management within the Council. Specific examples can include, but are not limited to, taking notes during Council
meetings, taking notes during Town Meetings, and assisting the Mayor in certain projects. These notes must be
reviewed and approved by the Council before their release. The Council Secretary does not have a vote in the
Council. The Council Secretary is nominated by the Mayor and must be approved individually by the Council through a
⅔majority vote.
II. Additional responsibilities of the Council:
1. Each office of the Council must prepare a written platform, a program of action to be implemented during the specified
term of office. This platform should present the goals and methodology for the office.
2. The Council should hold regular meetings to discuss and evaluate ongoing programs. The meetings are compulsory for
all members unless a viable excuse is given. Embracing the principles of democracy, all members of the school
community are encouraged to attend Council meetings.
3. The Council must, at times, make decisions on items such as those called for in this Constitution. In order to make
these decisions, the Council must vote. Three-quarters of the Council constitutes a quorum, and decisions will be
made by a two-thirds majority vote.
4. The Council must administer elections at the end of each semester, as outlined in Article VII.
5. The Mayor has final responsibility for the effectiveness of the Council, and the Director of Indian Springs School has
final responsibility for the effectiveness of the Faculty Liaisons, which are mentor Faculty members assigned to
each Commission and Class. It is the duty of the Mayor and Director to see that the Commissions and Liaisons
develop a unified program in order to improve specific aspects of the school-community from the vantage point of
a comprehensive view of school-community problems.
Article V – The Judiciary
The Indian Springs School Judiciary is a panel elected entirely by the students for the purpose of hearing and ruling on
infractions of policies, rules, and standards within the school-community. The Judiciary is composed of eleven students and
one Faculty Liaison. The eleven-member panel must be composed of one 8th (for the second semester only), one 9th, one
10th, one 11th, and one 12th grader as well as two boarding students, elected by popular vote by the entire student body.
Once these stipulations have been met, the remaining spots will be filled by those receiving the highest number of votes. Any
student who wishes to run for the Judiciary is both welcome and encouraged to do so. The Faculty has no input regarding
who is allowed to run.
I. Offices of Judiciary
There are two offices of Judiciary: the Head of Judiciary and the Student Recorder. Both positions are elected at the first
Judiciary meeting following general elections by a combined panel of incoming and outgoing members of the Judiciary. Voting
is anonymous, and offices are decided by majority vote.
1. The Head of Judiciary is the leader of the panel and serves as a guide and moderator during discussions rather than a
member advocating their own opinions. The Head of Judiciary has no vote during regular meetings except in the case of a tie,
where they serve as a tiebreaker. In order to run for Head of Judiciary, a student must have previously served at least one
term on the panel, if there is such a person. The Head of Judiciary is responsible for organizing meeting times, bringing a
copy of the Read ‘n’ Heed, Records, and precedents to every meeting, taking attendance at meetings, and notifying the
accused of the accused offense as well as the date, time, and location of the hearing. After each hearing, it is the Head’s
responsibility to provide the Dean of Student Life with a report of all cases, rulings, and work hours or other punishments
given.
2. The Student Recorder keeps an accurate record of the decisions made by the Judiciary and serves as the
Impeachment Recorder during the impeachment of a Council member as outlined in Article VIII. In the event of the Head of
Judiciary receiving a Record, the Student Recorder assumes the role of Head of Judiciary for that case.
II. The Faculty Liaison
The Faculty Liaison to the Judiciary is the Faculty’s representation on the panel. They serve only as a guide; students
maintain the primary responsibility and control of the Judiciary. The Faculty Liaison may voice an opinion, act as a clarifier
and interpreter of the rules, and assist in interrogating the accused. They may not vote during regular meetings or during
the election of offices. The Faculty Liaison is responsible for creating a written memo of all proceedings of the Judiciary to
distribute to the Director, the Dean of Academics, the Dean of Student Life, and the Dean of Residential Life. The Faculty
Liaison is expected to abide by all policies, rules, and procedures of the Judiciary.
III. The Dean of Student Life
The Dean of Student Life is not a member of the Judiciary and is not present during meetings; they serve as an outside
assistant in executing the administrative duties of the Judiciary. After each meeting, an outline of all decisions, including a
breakdown of the work hours and/or other punishments and their corresponding offenses, is given to the Dean of Student
Life by the Head of Judiciary. The Dean of Student Life is responsible for notifying each student and their Faculty Advisor of
the work hour assignment and/or other punishment given by the Judiciary. It is the Dean of Student Life’s responsibility to
keep track of work hours performed and time frames for other punishments for each student. When a Faculty member
submits a record, they are to be informed of the case’s outcome by the Dean of Student Life.
IV. Judiciary Procedure
Persuasion is the primary means of enforcement of the rules in the school-community. However, acknowledging that a
warning may not alter behavior in all situations, a Record may be issued after persuasion has been attempted. Any member of
the community may write a Record to report a rule infraction. Records are submitted to the Head of Judiciary through email.
In the Record, the accuser should provide a detailed written explanation of the situation along with any other relevant
information. If there is not enough information from the accuser to prove guilt, the accused should be deemed innocent. Prior
to the
hearing, the Head of Judiciary may ask the accuser if there is more information associated with the record. The responsibility
for providing details falls on the accuser in order for the Judiciary to remain the jury rather than the prosecutor. The accuser
may choose to remain anonymous during the proceedings of the hearing. The accuser should provide all relevant information
in the original record, but may request to attend the hearing if he or she would like to provide additional information. When a
Record is submitted, the Head will alert the Judiciary, the accused, and the accuser (when necessary) of the date, time, and
location of the hearing. Meetings should be called as regularly as possible. Six members of the Judiciary other than the Head
must be present to constitute a quorum.
The accused must appear before the Judiciary on the specified day. If the accused does not do so and does not provide a
viable excuse, they will automatically be given a set punishment. On the day of the hearing, the Head will read the Record
aloud and explain the case to the Judiciary. The Judiciary will then summon and question the accused concerning all aspects
of the case and any connected incidents. Upon completion, the accused will leave the room. Only the eleven members of the
Judiciary and the Faculty Liaison are allowed to be present during deliberation. The panel must first determine if the accused is
innocent or guilty. The accused is considered innocent until proven guilty. If the accused is deemed guilty, the precedent
system—a written record of past rule infractions and their correlating punishments—will be used as a guide during the
deliberation of punishment. However, due to the uniqueness of each case, the precedent system should not necessarily be
followed. Finally, the Judiciary will set a punishment by majority vote. If at any point during the process the Judiciary
determines it has inadequate information, the panel reserves the right to postpone a case until more information has been
gathered from relevant parties. The accused may also be summoned for additional questioning for clarification.
On the following school day, the accused must report to the Dean of Student Life to receive their punishment. If work
hours were assigned, the accused must then contact the appropriate adult to establish a schedule for the completion of the
work hours. If the work hours are not completed within the set time period, the accused will be charged with “work hour
delinquency,” and the uncompleted number of hours shall be doubled automatically. If the accused vehemently maintains their
innocence yet is given work hours, they have the right to formally submit an appeal by email to the Judiciary. After the Dean
of Student Life and the Director are notified of the petition, the Judiciary will hold another hearing to reexamine evidence and
question relevant parties.
Strict confidentiality must be maintained throughout the entire Judiciary process.
V. Judiciary Rules
1. All Judiciary members and the Faculty Liaison must act with seriousness of purpose, maintain respectful conduct, and
lead by example. This is of the utmost importance to the effectiveness of the Judiciary, which must maintain the
respect of the community to function properly.
2. All Judiciary members have equal say and power regardless of age or experience.
3. Those hearing the case and receiving summary memos must maintain the confidentiality of all proceedings and
outcomes. There will be no discussion of the decision-making process in front of the accused. Only the accused has
the right to discuss the Judiciary’s decision; it is that person’s decision alone to discuss their case.
4. If a Judiciary member is responsible for issuing a record, that member will not vote on that case or be present for its
deliberation.
5. If a Judiciary member receives a Record, that member may not be present during the deliberation of the case.
6. Personal bias of any kind against anyone may not affect the vote or discussion of a case. If a panel member feels
unable to ignore a bias, they should recuse themselves from the case.
7. If the accused is found guilty of breaking a rule, even if members of the Judiciary disagree with the rule, the Judiciary
must punish it accordingly.
8. The Judiciary is responsible for punishing any rule infractions that are uncovered during a hearing.
9. The Judiciary must meet at least once per term for a self-evaluation and discussion of any necessary changes to these
rules and the procedures herein.
10. The Judiciary may not assign cruel or unusual punishments.
11. Judiciary members are expected to attend every meeting. A member is allowed one unexcused absence before
being removed from the panel. A member is allowed four excused absences. At the fourth absence, if the absences
are deemed disruptive to the panel’s functioning, the Head of Judiciary will conduct a vote regarding the removal of
the member. In the case of any vacancy, a special election must be held as outlined in Article VII.
12. All Judiciary members must abide by these rules and procedures or be removed from the Judiciary.
Article VI – Measures Governing Behavior
The price of freedom is responsibility embodied by self-restraint and obligation. Regulations are put forth by the
Administration, the Faculty, and the Students to maintain the community’s values and the balance of freedom and
responsibility. The specific regulations can be found in the Reed-N-Heed.
I. Administrative Policies
Administrative policies are limited to issues deemed particularly significant by the Director. They are related to the
advancement of the school’s mission and the protection of the school’s good name. The development of these policies is
the responsibility of the Director alone.
II. Faculty Policies
Faculty policies are the rules and policies deemed to be significant by the Faculty. In general, they are concerned with
the school’s operation and the safety and well being of the student body. While the Faculty has the final say in the
development of Faculty Policy, students have the right to propose any revisions they see fit. Any Faculty member may
propose an amendment to the Faculty Policy. The proposed alteration is taken to the Faculty to be voted on. The
Administration may veto a proposed policy.
Note to Sections I and II:
The Administration and Faculty pledge to hear student opinion relating to the formulation of policies
that concern students, but they reserve the right to make decisions independent of the majority
opinion of students. While the Administration and Faculty are obligated to explain to the students the
reasoning behind actions taken, students’ opinions do not affect a policy’s introduction into the
Read-N-Heed.
III. Student Standards
In keeping with a commitment to the widest possible student participation in government, the Faculty shall designate
realms of the school-community in which students shall be free to govern as described in the Read-N-Heed. Such areas are
intended to develop in students a sense of duty in the exercise of freedom. The designation of Student Standards assumes
close cooperation between Faculty and Students. Students should only petition the Faculty for such designation after sufficient
prior cooperative thinking and planning by representatives of the Faculty and Council. Both Faculty and Students are
responsible for creating a favorable and supportive atmosphere when Students petition to claim a standard. The Faculty shall
refrain from transferring a Faculty Policy to Students unless there is evidence of widespread desire on the part of Students to
undertake responsible management of that area. There should be ongoing discussion between Faculty and Students regarding
the management of an assumed Standard. Faculty may not mandate changes in Standards or in Student enforcement
procedures of the Standards. It is the Faculty’s duty to re-assume control of a Student Standard if students fail to show
responsibility in their governance of that area. In withdrawing a designation of a Student Standard, the Faculty will give its
reasons first to the Council, and then to the Town Meeting, but there is no implication of a right to veto by either group.
The preferred means of enforcement of all Student Standards is persuasion, which if ineffective, may be followed by
a Record as outlined in Article V.
Student Standards are formulated by the following procedure:
Students should initiate an inquiry into the possibility of assuming responsibility for an area, or Faculty may encourage
students to assume responsibility for an area. Any student, in consultation with any member of the school-community they
choose, writes a proposal for standards or revisions to be implemented in the area in question. Faculty may also propose
changes to existing standards. There will be small group discussions of the proposed standards and means of enforcement.
The final proposal is then submitted to and reviewed by the Council. The Council will then hold a vote. If the proposed
revision passes the Council, the revisions will then be voted on in a Faculty meeting. Representatives from the Council should
attend the Faculty meeting in order to maintain thorough communication. If it passes the Faculty, the proposed Standards
must be presented in a Town Meeting and voted on for final approval. For the amendment to pass the Council, Faculty, and
Town Meeting, the revisions must have a two-thirds majority support of each. If the consultation procedure does not produce
widespread commitment to the proposal on the part of students, the Mayor will remand the matter to the originating group for
further consideration.
At the beginning of the school year, the Council should review existing standards and present them to the Town
Meeting (or to small groups) for consideration and possible revision. Standards of the preceding year are in effect until this
is done.
Article VII – Elections
In order for a democracy to survive, it must be self-perpetuating through the orderly and fair transition of power by
means of open elections.
1. Elections for the Council and the Judiciary will be held biannually near the end of each semester.
2. Only students are allowed to vote in elections. Every student, regardless of circumstance, is allowed and encouraged
to vote.
3. The Faculty has no input in who is allowed to run. Any student may run for a position regardless of circumstance.
4. In order to run for a public office, students must petition. The Council will specify and publicize the nature of the
petition for each office. Petitions for Mayor and Commissions must include platforms and signatures as defined
in Article IV and the Council is responsible for making all platforms public.
5. While students may run for only one office in the Council, they are permitted to run for the Judiciary in addition to an
office in the Council.
6. Each candidate is entrusted with using their best judgment in carrying out a campaign, should they choose to have
one. All campaign material must be appropriate and aimed at positively portraying a candidate rather than negatively
portraying a competitor. The Council may vote to disqualify a candidate who has deviated from these requirements.
7. A special Town Meeting will be held prior to each election day in which candidates may make speeches presenting their
platforms. The Council will administer this Town Meeting and make public the agenda thereof before the meeting.
8. Voting will be by secret ballot after the special Town Meeting. The Council must determine the optimal method to
conduct a fair and impartial voting process, which should be made public before voting commences. The Council
may appoint other students and Faculty members to assist them.
9. The Council will tally the votes and may appoint other students and Faculty members to assist them. The numerical
statistics are to be kept completely confidential, with only the results of the election posted and not the number of
votes each candidate received.
10. Election is by an Alternative Vote. Voters will be given the option to rank the candidates in order of First Choice,
Second Choice, etc. If the candidate with the highest number of First Choice votes obtains a majority, they win the
election. If said candidate does not receive a majority of all votes cast, the candidate with the lowest number of
First Option votes will drop out and their votes will transfer to each respective voter’s Second Choice. This process
will repeat automatically until there is a clear majority winner.
11. If less than three-quarters of the student body participates in the election, there will be a re-election. Elections for
the Commission of Boarding will require three-quarters participation from the boarding student community.
12. No candidate for an election may assist in the election process. Therefore, Council members who plan to run in the
election may neither participate in decisions that the Council makes concerning the election nor assist in
administering the voting or counting.
13. The Council must choose the members who are primarily responsible for conducting the election process. Usually,
this duty is allotted to either the Commission of Citizenship or the Commission of Protection. However, if students
holding both Commissions plan to run for office, the Council must elect two impartial council members to run the
election.
14. In the case of a vacancy in the offices of the Mayor or the Commissions, the Town Meeting must decide by a two
thirds majority vote whether or not the vacancy should be filled. In the case of a vacancy in the offices of the
Class Representatives, the relevant Class Meeting will decide by a two-thirds majority vote whether or not the
vacancy should be filled. If it is decided that a vacancy should be filled, the normal election procedure will take
place. If a vacancy should arise in the Judiciary, the vacancy must be filled by a special election.
Article VIII – Impeachment of Elected Officials
Any member of the Indian Springs school-community can suggest the impeachment of an elected student official.
There are separate processes for the impeachment and removal of students from various offices.
I. Students holding the offices of the Council may be accused and impeached by the following process:
1. The accuser must present the proposal of impeachment to the Judiciary, either in person or in writing, giving specific
reasons for impeachment. The accuser has the option to remain anonymous.
2. The Judiciary will install the Student Recorder as the Impeachment Recorder to record the arguments and proceedings
of the impeachment trial. If the Student Recorder is unable to be impartial, another member of the Judiciary may be
elected by majority vote to be the Impeachment Recorder.
3. The Judiciary can decide on the manner in which to conduct the trial but must hear both the accuser’s and the
accused’s arguments. Based on the trial, the Judiciary will decide by majority vote whether or not the
proposed impeachment should continue to the Town Meeting or the Class Meeting.
4. If the Judiciary decides to advance the impeachment case of a Class Representative, then the case will go to the
respective Class Meeting. Cases for all other Council offices will advance to the Town Meeting. The proceedings in
the preliminary stages (outlined in a, b, and c) are to remain completely confidential even after the Town Meeting
or the Class Meeting, if one is held. Only the information and arguments that the Judiciary deems important
enough for the Impeachment Recorder to present in public meetings may be disclosed, in the case of a Town
Meeting or Class Meeting. Only the Impeachment Recorder may present such information.
5. The Impeachment Recorder must make a presentation to the Town Meeting if the accused is a Mayor or
Commissioner, or to the Class Meeting if the accused is a Class Representative. This presentation should include the
accusations against the official and the accused official’s defense in an equal and unbiased manner. Students in the
Town Meeting or Class Meeting will then vote by secret ballot on whether or not to remove the impeached official
from office. If the impeachment passes the Town Meeting or Class Meeting by a two-thirds majority, the official will
be removed from office immediately.
6. The vacancy procedure outlined in Article VII will determine whether or not a special election will be held.
II. Students holding chairs on the Judiciary may be accused and impeached by the following process:
1. The accuser must present the proposal of impeachment to the Council, either in person or in writing, giving specific
reasons for impeachment. The accuser has the option to remain anonymous.
2. The Council must elect by majority vote an impartial member of the Council to be the Impeachment Recorder to record
the arguments and proceedings of the impeachment trial.
3. The Council can decide on the manner in which to conduct the trial but must hear both the accuser’s and the accused’s
arguments. Based on the trial, the Council will decide by a two-thirds majority vote whether or not the proposed
impeachment should continue to the Town Meeting.
4. The proceedings in the preliminary stages (outlined in a, b, and c) are to remain completely confidential even after the
Town Meeting, if one is held. Only the information and arguments that the Council deems important enough for the
Impeachment Recorder to present in a public meeting may be disclosed, in the case of a Town Meeting. Only the
Impeachment Recorder may present such information.
5. The Impeachment Recorder must present the accusations against the official and the defenses of the accused to the
Town Meeting in an equal and unbiased manner. Students will then vote by secret ballot on whether or not to
remove the impeached official from office. If the impeachment passes the Town Meeting by a two-thirds majority,
the official will be removed from office immediately.
6. In the case that a Judiciary member is impeached, there must be a special election to fill the vacancy.
Article IX – Amendments
Provided that every member of the school-community has the power and obligation to improve it through constructive
change, any person may submit a proposal to amend the Constitution at any time during the academic year. The proposed
amendment must first be submitted to and reviewed by the Council. The Council will hold a vote. If the proposed
amendment passes the Council, the revisions will then go to a Faculty meeting to be voted on. Representatives from the
Council should attend the Faculty meeting in order to maintain thorough communication. If it passes the Faculty, the
revisions must be presented in a Town Meeting and voted on for final approval. For the amendment to pass the Council,
Faculty, and Town
Meeting, the revisions must have two-thirds majority support of each. If at any point significant revisions are made to
an amendment, the process will begin again with the Council’s review.
